well howdy there internet people its Bo
again so today we're going to talk about
statistics and confirmation bias and
bias in general and expectations and
spurious correlations and causal effects
a whole bunch of stuff that does not
sound interesting but trust me it will
be we're going to do this because
there's a whole bunch of people who are
new subscribers who do not understand
how interactive this channel is this is
basically a choose your own storybook on
YouTube if something shows up in the
comment section enough rest assured
we're going to talk about it
especially if it's something I have an
ethical or moral qualms with and don't
really want down there there is a
certain group of statistics that keeps
getting linked and the people linking it
are attempting to show a causal
relationship between two things the
problem is that's not what those
statistics show it's not what they were
designed to show it's not even the
information contained in them however
the people who are linking them don't
know that so we're going to go through
it now those stats come from the Uniform
Crime reporting program of the FBI and
what they what these stats are is they
show a type of crime and then the
demographic that's most likely to commit
those crimes right no that's not what's
showing on those stats it shows the type
of crime and then the demographics that
are most often suspected or arrested in
cleared cases we've talked about it
before on this channel law enforcement
doesn't clear most cases it's actually a
really small percentage in most
categories it's below 50% and some it's
in the teens
so it's an incomplete data set to begin
with and then you add in to that people
don't know what it's actually showing so
what's most often linked is the
demographic information on race now we
have millions of people in the streets
right now saying that law enforcement
has a systemic issue with racism
it shouldn't be a real big surprise that
black people get arrested or suspected
more okay that that shouldn't come as a
shock to anyone there there's a whole
bunch of people out there saying that
but the idea behind linking this is to
establish a causal relationship between
skin tone and a predisposition to
committing a crime that's racist period
full stop that's racist if you believe
somebody's skin tone will increase their
likelihood of being a criminal that's
racist
that's not what that information was
even designed to show now if you were to
take the data set that's provided and
get the arrest locations and then adjust
those for poverty levels and the level
of income and equality in those areas
what you will find out is that all of
the racial disparities disappear because
facts aren't racist people are that
isn't something if if you're attempting
to establish that causal relationship
that a certain skin tone is more likely
to be a criminal take it somewhere else
I don't want it down there that's not a
real argument it's not rooted in fact
it's rooted in your own biases okay the
other thing people want to talk about is
the whole taser thing it's non-lethal
it's lethal it's less lethal sure
whatever we'll go through them but
whatever it is we're going to apply it
across the board we're going to be
consistent about it the Taser
does not become more lethal simply
because a scary black man picked it up
that's not how it works whatever
category you want to call it we're going
to call it that across the board now
less than lethal less lethal that's not
a thing less than lethal means it isn't
lethal so it's non-lethal less lethal
means it is still lethal it's just not
as Lee
with something else the term doesn't
really have a definition let me show you
how this works let's say I'm holding a
pipe and an AR and I say the AR is less
lethal you're gonna look at me like I've
lost it rightfully so because it doesn't
make sense
however if we were to base that
definition on murder statistics right
blunt objects will they get used more so
they're more lethal without a definition
for the term it means nothing okay
something can either be reasonably
expected to be non-lethal or reasonably
be expected to be lethal those are the
options now if it's non lethal law
enforcement had no reason to fire if it
is lethal all the suspects actions were
justified because please explain to me
what exactly he had done at the point
where law enforcement used it to warrant
lethal force it's not there it is not
there now if you want to create a
category and say it's less lethal fine
do it but apply it across the board
it doesn't the the device does not
become more lethal simply because the
scary black man is holding it okay and
what you will find out is either there
was no justification or the suspect was
completely justified and playing no
justification shoot or the suspect was
justified inflate if you apply whatever
term you want to use consistently that's
what you'll find out if you don't engage
in mental gymnastics that is what you
will find out now the other argument is
well he may have taken is God sure
whatever you know let's set aside the
fact that he was fleeing and attempting
to any engagement you know we don't want
facts to get in the way of a good story
so we'll just forget about that well
we'll just create this what-if scenario
and which yes the person running who was
apparently intoxicated
well he he turned fired hit the person
engaged the Taser it functioned
incapacitated the officer then the
officers partner decided to go get a
hamburger Wendy's and the guy took his
gun sure yeah I guess that could happen
I mean that seems like really realistic
that the whole idea is that it has to be
reasonable that's not reasonable that
isn't a reasonable storyline I would be
really cautious about granting officers
the power to engage in sorry execution
based on whatever what if scenario they
can come up with because if you do that
they can shoot anybody at any time
most people have function of their hands
most people could take an officer's
weapon well he was gonna punch me and
take it but he was running away doesn't
matter had shoot him well he was
standing by a rock that in theory he
could have picked up and thrown and hit
me in the head and knocked me out and
take my gun that did no we cannot use
that for basis for lethal force would
you do the same thing would you engage
in this same amount of mental gymnastics
if it was a 14 year old white girl
probably not probably not most of the
defense's I have seen of this have been
firmly rooted in racism and in case you
can't pick it up not welcome here take
it somewhere else
it's not what this channel is about it's
about moving forward not fostering ideas
from the 1960s or 1930s or 1860s I don't
want it here
now is the time to examine your own
beliefs now it's time to see where you
really fit in what your moral fiber is
what your biases are anyway it's just a
thought y'all have a good day